# Spatial-Attention-Network-for-DR-Classification

Grading of Diabetic Retinopathy (DR) from fundus images is the first and foremost step in diagnosing and developing a treatment plan, since the treatment of DR varies with the severity of the disease. Manual grading leads to intra-observer and inter-observer variations, and sometimes both the eyes may develop different grade of DR. Hence, there is a need for computer aided diagnosis to assist ophthalmologists with their treatment and inferences. Sate of the art deep architectures based on convolutional neural networks have been developed and show good results in automated grading.

This work proposes multiple enhancements over the learning paradigms in the earlier methods, by focusing on lesion enhancement through CLAHE processing and Gaussian Blurring to enable upgraded feature extraction through convolutional neural networks. To allow for taking in consideration the spatial distribution of lesions and selectively amplify the significant features, we introduce an attention block custom-augmented with VGG-16 as the base CNN model, leveraging the fine-tuning capabilities of VGG-16 to provide better results even with limited samples.  By incorporating the lesion enhancement techniques along with custom architectural supplementation, the proposed attention-convolution based deep learning architecture was able to outperform the existing attention modules. The proposed architecture was evaluated against the EyePacs dataset and achieved an average accuracy of 85% for CLAHE and 82% for Gaussian blurred images.
